Problem: In your application, there is a section for adults only. You need to get a list of names and ages of users from the users table, who are 18 years old or older.

users table schema

name
age
NOTE: Your solution should use pure SQL. Ruby is used within the test cases just to validate your answer.

--Your code here

Select name, age
  FROM users
  WHERE age >= 18;

Test Results:
SELECT Results
name	age
Sam	20
Andrew	25
Maria	18
Martha	30
users
should return 4 users
should contain only 2 columns
should contain name column
should contain age column
should only return users who are 18 or older


Problem: You are a border guard sitting on the Canadian border. You were given a list of travelers who have arrived at your gate today. You know that American, Mexican, and Canadian citizens don't need visas, so they can just continue their trips. You don't need to check their passports for visas! You only need to check the passports of citizens of all other countries!

Select names, and countries of origin of all the travelers, excluding anyone from Canada, Mexico, or The US.

travelers table schema

name
country
NOTE: The United States is written as 'USA' in the table.

NOTE: Your solution should use pure SQL. Ruby is used within the test cases just to validate your answer.

--Your Code Here
SELECT name, country
FROM travelers
where country not in ('Canada', 'USA', 'Mexico')

Time: 1178ms Passed: 7Failed: 0
Test Results:
SELECT Results
name	country
Andrew	Italy
Maria	Spain
Jolie	France
Jonathan	Egypt
Mena	Argentina
Lukas	China
travelers
should return 6 travelers
should contain only 2 columns
should contain name column
should contain country column
American travelers shouldn't appear on the list
Mexican travelers shouldn't appear on the list
Canadian travelers shouldn't appear on the list


Problem: You received an invitation to an amazing party. Now you need to write an insert statement to add yourself to the table of participants.

participants table schema

name (string)
age (integer)
attending (boolean)
NOTES:

Since alcohol will be served, you can only attend if you are 21 or older
You can't attend if the attending column returns anything but true
NOTE: Your solution should use pure SQL. Ruby is used within the test cases just to validate your answer.

--Your Code Here

INSERT INTO participants (name, age , attending)
VALUES ('Carlos', 34, TRUE);

SELECT * FROM participants;

Problem: You are working for a local school, and you are responsible for collecting tuition from students. You have a list of all students, some of them have already paid tution and some haven't. Write a select statement to get a list of all students who haven't paid their tuition yet. The list should include all the data available about these students.

students table schema

name (string)
age (integer)
semester (integer)
mentor (string)
tuition_received (Boolean)
NOTE: Your solution should use pure SQL. Ruby is used within the test cases just to validate your answer.

-- Your Code Here

SELECT name, age, semester, mentor, tuition_received
FROM students
WHERE tuition_received = FALSE

Time: 1177ms Passed: 1Failed: 0
Test Results:
SELECT Results
name	age	semester	mentor	tuition_received
Sam	24	1	Mr Green	false
John	23	2	Mrs White	false
Issa	21	3	Mr Green	false
Simon	23	2	Mr Jackson	false
Julie	25	3	Mr Green	false
Alison	21	3	Mrs White	false
students
should return 6 students

Problem: You work at a book store. It's the end of the month, and you need to find out the 5 bestselling books at your store. Use a select statement to list names, authors, and number of copies sold of the 5 books which were sold most.

books table schema

name
author
copies_sold
NOTE: Your solution should use pure SQL. Ruby is used within the test cases just to validate your answer.

Time: 1256ms Passed: 1Failed: 0
Test Results:
SELECT Results
name	author	copies_sold
The Unbearable Lightness of Being	Milan Kundera	9065
On the Genealogy of Morality	Friedrich Nietzsche	8732
On Liberty	John Stuart Mill	7365
On the Origin of Species	Charles Darwin	3805
Studies on Hysteria	Sigmund Freud	2765
books

Problem: Your friends told you that if you keep coding on your computer, you are going to hurt your eyes. They suggested that you go with them to trivia night at the local club.

Once you arrive at the club, you realize the true motive behind your friends' invitation. They know that you are a computer nerd, and they want you to query the countries table and get the answers to the trivia questions.

Schema of the countries table:

country (String)
capital (String)
continent (String)
The first question: from the African countries that start with the character E, get the names of their capitals ordered alphabetically.

You should only give the names of the capitals. Any additional information is just noise
If you get more than 3, you will be kicked out, for being too smart
Also, this database is crowd-sourced, so sometimes Africa is written Africa and in other times Afrika.

-- Your solution here

SELECT country, capital, continent
FROM countries
WHERE country like 'E%'
ORDER BY capital
LIMIT 3;

Time: 1059ms Passed: 1Failed: 0
Test Results:
SELECT Results
country	capital	continent
Ethiopia	Addis Ababa	Africa
Eritrea	Asmara	Afrika
Egypt	Cairo	Africa
